# Akane Matsumoto & Ayumi Koketsu: *Trust* 

*Trust* is a 2024 release from the duo of pianist Akane Matsumoto and
saxophonist Ayumi Koketsu. These two musicians are leaders of their own
combos, members of other groups, and also friends and working bandmates
for many years running. The pair have gathered a lot of performance
experience from live shows and tours taken together and have developed a
deep connection between their musical instincts. Surprisingly, *Trust*
is the first album they’ve recorded together. This serendipitously timed
release also commemorates twelve years of their working together, a
number that is meaningful in Japan for its significance in cyclic
durations and milestones, symbolizing the closing of loops and the start
of new stages. Perhaps it can be said that trust grows over time, and
it’s wise not to rush it.

Matsumoto and Koketsu’s/ Trust/ includes seven tracks of sax and piano
duo arrangements and runs at about 41 minutes. The selection is drawn
from material they admire and are very familiar with. This includes some
of their favorite songs and composers such as Tom Harrell, Richard
Rodgers, Enrico Pieranunzi, and Lee Konitz. Speaking of Konitz, sax
player Koketsu has an affinity for and a likeness to alto sax players
like Art Pepper and Lee Konitz. One of her albums is simply titled
*[Art](https://www.jazzofjapan.com/p/ayumi-koketsu-art)*, and the
Matsumoto/Koketsu duo has been known to play certain tunes from the Lee
Konitz/Lennie Tristano cool jazz repertoire including
“Subconscious-Lee”, “Wow”, and Konitz’s “Stephanie”, which opens this
album.

Full videos for three of the album’s tracks are available online (#1
“Stephanie”, \#2 “Border Line”, and \#4 “Chet”) and show the actual
performance recording made for this album, and the three other videos
feature the duo in an equally captivating live setting (links to the
videos are included below).

As a duo, the mood of the music departs just a bit from Matsumoto’s
trademark happy bebop virtuosity — her heroes being Oscar Peterson and
Phineas Newborn Jr. — and Koketsu’s wide-ranging, modern edge. They are
clearly comfortable and confident together, alternately leading,
following, or playing simultaneously, and trading positions intuitively
without needing to rely on standard waypoints or signals. With the
familiarity and skill that the duo has built together over the years,
their sense of time, tone, jazz phrasing, and playing fills the air with
subdued hues and room-filling colors, languidly refreshed like a cat
stretching out of a nap.

That’s not to say it’s all romantic ballads and sleepy atmospheres. As a
single album, the moods are all of a piece, conveying integrity,
solidarity, and belief. It’s music that is refined, soft, and fresh, but
can be dreamily veiled (#4 “Chet”) and hauntingly moody (#7 “Spartacus
Love Theme”) at times as well. The selection of music performed with
indisputable skill and wisdom makes their playing intimate, comfortable,
and familiar. It’s a perfect fit for the theme of *Trust* that this
album embodies.

## Liner Notes

*(Translated from Akane Matsumoto and Ayumi Koketsu’s original Japanese
liner notes.)*

Thank you for purchasing this album.

Twelve years have passed since the start of this duo. We’ve played
together so many times that it’s impossible to count. We’ve raised each
other through trial and error, playing each of our compositions and
interpretations of many jazz originals, and always striving for an even
better sound day by day. Through tours of the country and conversations
about many things, we’ve discussed everything from our music to thinking
more deeply about our individual characters. Along with the respect we
have for one another, I believe that we’ve built a relationship based on
absolute mutual trust. At this point in time, with the accumulation of
these many years since we started, it felt right and somehow inevitable
to create a duo album together, and it’s very moving for me. We made
*Trust* wholeheartedly while thinking about the path we’ve walked
together over these twelve years. Here’s to the hope that this album can
touch people’s hearts, whether one person or as many people as possible.
(Ayumi Koketsu)

1.  Stephanie

This is a beautiful ballad written by Lee Konitz. The somewhat
nostalgic, heartwarming melody of this song seems to bring the
performers together. Although there was a set tempo for the performance,
the most important thing was to have our natural rhythms come together.
Even as we were taking breaths at the same time, we moved to connect the
sounds as if singing together. I believe that we were only able to
perform this way because of the mutual trust and closeness that we’ve
built up over the years. (Ayumi Koketsu)

2.  Border Line

This recording was made over two days. With a feeling close to that of
when we perform together, we could relax from start to finish by hearing
one another’s live sound right next to each other. I could sense a
natural flow to the music as a result of the sound and outlook that
we’ve cultivated over a long time together, and it moved me many times
during the performance. In particular, I feel that track \#1 “Stephanie”
and this take set the direction for the entire album. I’m proud that we
have been able to continue to develop our band-like sound in the
flexible form of a duo, and I’m extremely pleased that it’s now taken
shape as this album. (Akane Matsumoto)

3.  Spring Is Here

This is a song written by Richard Rogers in 1938 for a musical. The
opening has a slightly floating atmosphere, and the second half brings a
transition to a calm and reassuring melody. It’s a song I really like as
I can play it in a very relaxed manner. For this recording, an
introductory arrangement was added. It’s a good song for relaxing,
taking your time, and listening to leisurely. (Ayumi Koketsu)

4.  Chet

If I was asked, “Which three duo albums would you take with you to a
desert island?”… *People Time* by Stan Getz and Kenny Barron is a must,
and I can’t let go of my favorite album *Kids* by Joe Lovano and Hank
Jones. I would definitely take *Oscar Peterson and Clark Terry*, which
is always guaranteed to make me feel happy. I would love to continue
absorbing *1+1* by Herbie Hancock and Wayne Shorter. Of course, I can’t
forget *Solitudes* by Lee Konitz and Enrico Pieranunzi, which includes
this song, “Chet”. Speaking for myself, it would be really tough to try
to narrow it down to just three albums (*haha*). The genuine charm of
the small form of a duo is the intimate conversation arising from the
notes. And the more the heart opens, the more free it becomes. This
one-to-one real-life communication, with all its humanity and
stimulation, goes deeper than the surface and allows us to recognize and
accept one another’s aesthetics and ideas. (Akane Matsumoto)

5.  It’s Easy to Remember

This is a song written by Richard Rogers in 1935 for a movie. This may
be the song we play most often as a duo. It’s permeated us so much so
that we can begin it just through eye contact, without any prior
arrangement or discussion. For this recording, we played it without
deciding anything beforehand, with the sense that it was like a regular
live performance. It’s a long take that unfolds over a comfortable
stretch of time. I hope you can enjoy this as if you were listening
closely to a ballad in a live setting. (Ayumi Koketsu)

6.  Coral Sea

There’s a place I always visit whenever I go back to my hometown. Near
my house, there’s a seemingly never-ending path through a rice field. As
I’m enjoying the scent of the earth and the song of the skylarks while
keeping an eye open for frogs playing in the path, I’m filled with the
relief of being in the midst of nature. The sky of San’in can be seen in
a sweeping 180 degrees. Mount Daisen, the Fuji of Hoki, towers over a
small mountain range far in the distance. Now that I’ve been living in
Tokyo for quite some time, I’m able to keenly reflect on the joy of
being raised in a land rich with nature. Someday I’d like to capture
this beautiful scenery and atmosphere and put it into music. Tom Harrell
often writes pieces that have themes of nature, and it feels as if he
transforms his emotions about the seasons and landscapes directly into
his songs. If you close your eyes and listen to this song, you can just
picture the beautiful coral reefs spreading out in the calm,
emerald-green sea. (Akane Matsumoto)

7.  Spartacus Love Theme

This is a ballad made famous by Bill Evans’ beautiful performance. The
soft, gentle sound of alto sax elevates the striking melody. I’ve shared
the stage with Ayumi countless times, and we’ve lived through the same
period in music together. For me, the term “sworn friends” is a perfect
fit. We’ve continued our work while supporting, accepting, and
complimenting one another. The deep understanding of what is important
to each of us and the many heartfelt discussions we’ve had may just be
the source of strength for our music. For twelve years we’ve been
pursuing the goal of striving to make our music better and better,
together. This album is both a culmination of that, as well as a new
starting point for the next stage. (Akane Matsumoto)

## Obi Notes

A twelve-year path walked together, carefully listening to and
harmonizing with each other’s sound. As musicians on a long and
challenging journey, uncovering the secret to expressing the wonders of
music. It’s nothing other than “Trust.”

## *Trust* by Akane Matsumoto & Ayumi Koketsu

- [Akane Matsumoto](http://akanejazz.com) - piano
- [Ayumi Koketsu](http://a-koketsu.com/) - saxophone

Released in 2024 on Concept Record as CR-18.

*Names in Japanese:* 松本茜 *(Matsumoto Akane)* 纐纈歩美 *(Koketsu
Ayumi)*

## Related Albums

- Akane Matsumoto: *[Playing New
  York](https://www.jazzofjapan.com/p/akane-matsumoto-playing-new-york)*
  (2010)
- Ayumi Koketsu: *[Rainbow
  Tales](https://www.jazzofjapan.com/p/ayumi-koketsu-rainbow-tales)*
  (2012)
- Wataru Hamasaki Meets Akane Matsumoto Trio: *[Big
  Catch](https://www.jazzofjapan.com/p/hamasaki-matsumoto-bigcatch)*
  (2013)
- Keisuke Nakamura:
  *[Humadope](https://www.jazzofjapan.com/p/keisuke-nakamura-humadope)*
  (2014)
- Akane Matsumoto: *[Memories of
  You](https://www.jazzofjapan.com/p/akane-matsumoto-memories-of-you)*
  (2015)
- Ayumi Koketsu:
  *[Art](https://www.jazzofjapan.com/p/ayumi-koketsu-art)* (2016)
- Akane Matsumoto: *[Night &
  Day](https://www.jazzofjapan.com/p/akane-matsumoto-night-and-day)*
  (2017)
- Akane Matsumoto: *[Oh, Lady Be
  Good](https://www.jazzofjapan.com/p/akane-matsumoto-oh-lady-be-good)*
  (2019)
- Akane Matsumoto: *[Little Girl
  Blue](https://www.jazzofjapan.com/p/akane-matsumoto-little-girl-blue)*
  (2022)
- Akane Matsumoto & Nanami Haruta: *[For My
  Lady](https://www.jazzofjapan.com/p/akane-matsumoto-nanami-haruta-for)*
  (2023)

## Audio and Video

- [Video for “Stephanie”, track \#1 on this
  album:](https://youtu.be/a4YOjhT2hYg)

<https://youtu.be/a4YOjhT2hYg>

- [Video for “Border Line”, track \#2 on this
  album:](https://youtu.be/u07q-6uW1Gw)

<https://youtu.be/u07q-6uW1Gw>

- [Video for “Chet”, track \#4 on this
  album](https://youtu.be/yeJCrIgVT2k)
- [Live performance of “Spartacus Love Theme”, track \#7 on this
  album](https://youtu.be/4Y0Ji3gS1Aw)
- [Live performance of “Evanessence”](https://youtu.be/ZOZZ28DGKbU)
- [Live performance of “Trip”](https://youtu.be/tSOocCLBI3Q)
- Excerpt from “Spring Is Here”, track \#3 on this album:

[../jazzofjapan-media/albums/akane-matsumoto-ayumi-koketsu-trust/03-Spring-Is-Here.mp3](../jazzofjapan-media/albums/akane-matsumoto-ayumi-koketsu-trust/03-Spring-Is-Here.mp3)

## Images

![](../jazzofjapan-media/albums/akane-matsumoto-ayumi-koketsu-trust/akane-matsumoto-ayumi-koketsu-trust-460.jpeg)
![](../jazzofjapan-media/albums/akane-matsumoto-ayumi-koketsu-trust/L1280694x-1200.jpeg)
![](../jazzofjapan-media/albums/akane-matsumoto-ayumi-koketsu-trust/L1280700x-1200.jpeg)
![](../jazzofjapan-media/albums/akane-matsumoto-ayumi-koketsu-trust/L1280705x-1200.jpeg)
![](../jazzofjapan-media/albums/akane-matsumoto-ayumi-koketsu-trust/L1280714x-1200.jpeg)
![](../jazzofjapan-media/albums/akane-matsumoto-ayumi-koketsu-trust/L1280721x-1200.jpeg)
